The Joe Rogan experience.
That was my first time after the sunset fight,
since the cam has a gawky fight that I didn't get injured.
I tore tendons and ligaments and stem cells out for eight weeks to, you know,
and then all of a sudden I was like, man, I was back in the gym Monday,
hungry to go and then COVID get, COVID get a title shot. I'm like,
I'm at the fight figure at 25, you got COVID.
Bad. Right. Well, you did you get COVID in the,
will you in the middle of training when you got it? Like when you're worn out.
Dead,
I was doing one training session and actually I started the whoop and I was
like, man, like my recovery score is 1% in the morning. My HR was like 17.
It was 1% for like a week and I would only do one workout and then I'd have the
cancel on Chris and Milan. I'm like, 1% is.
Dead dude.
Crazy. But then I was like, you know what? I'm just gonna go ride the bike.
You know, I was getting on those bikes doing, you know,
50 to a hundred mile rides and just suffering. Cause I had vertigo really bad.
So I couldn't get in those uncompromised position that when did you start.
Experiencing vertigo?
Vertigo was my first symptom of Colvin not knowing I,
and then I had it head injury. My, uh, my doctor, I went and saw and he's like,
that's a concussion. I'm like, dude, I didn't get hit hard.
And sparring my fights. Like I've worked on defense a lot. Like I know,
I would know if it was a concussive blow that gave me vertigo. And um.
What did you experience it after training? Did.
You experience it? It was during grappling. I was like grappling. You didn't.
Collide heads or anything?
Nope. Into the scramble and mixing, you know,
it was just like fighting the hands off and the whole room was spinning and I
was actually training with her Uriah and I was like, man, he's like,
you all right. I'm like, what's going on? I was like,
kinda like didn't want to in the route.
So I just kinda like closed my eyes and like hold onto his hands.
So he wouldn't choke me. You know, he used to, he was taking my back.
So I was finished around and I was like, man, I just don't feel good.
And I was nauseated for a few days. Um, so I went to my doctor,
he was giving me like anti-nausea medicine that was making me so much more tired
than I was. Cause I was fatigued from, from training. I was,
you're trying to train through it. I was like,
I have a world title coming up in eight weeks.
Like I have to get down to 25 and my weight was good. Um,
I wasn't restricting any calories. Nothing.
You felt something was off with your body besides the vertigo?
My body felt like I just was for about a three week period when I was training
and I didn't feel like myself at all. I just mental clarity was, was.
So do you think during that time you had COVID the whole time?
I think so. You know, that is crazy.
And th that makes sense that it hit you so hard because you never gave your body
a break and you were beating yourself up while you were fighting off COVID.
Well that, I think what happened was the kidney infection.
In the beginning of 2020, I was on all those antibiotics.
I was on five different antibiotics to people don't even know there's two weeks
before the fight with the sun. So that infection came back.
So I had to go to another infectious disease doctor that my Dr. Hill found in
Sacramento. This lady was amazing. Did two blood cultures found out,
got all the report from the hospital in Jersey, the reports from the,
the specialist and the Cleveland study those all in a day, got a blood culture.
I was on the wrong antibiotics that didn't kill the infection.
Just basically put a bandaid over it.
So I had to go 10 days to an IV fusion center to get an antibiotic drip for 10
days while I'm training two weeks before the fight. Oh my God,
I didn't let any of the UFC or anybody know. Um,
I told Ali what was kinda what was going on because I just needed to get in an
Octonauts like, dude, just put me in that octagon. I know that it'll happen.
Like to get me there healthy and I'll be good.
So, but that with your endurance in a big way.
I V antibiotics are a routine.
It was tough, man. It was a, and my strength conditioning coach,
we were having the hardest time I was hovering around, you know,
I was getting my heart rate up 180 7 and then I couldn't get it below,
like hover at one 50,
which I'm fine at St at one 50 and going up and being in that one 50 to 180 zone
that I can be there for awhile, but we're working on the aerobic system.
So to drop it, you know, I just couldn't drop it.
It took about the last week of training before I flew out to the fight week
to finally get my heart rate in like 30 fives. Like after a hard,
like a minute 30 push and then drop it down.
So I noticed something like that was it. But mentally I was like, it's good.
Two weeks out. You D you had to do a 10 day cycle of IVF.
And then a 10 day of, um, oral. What? Yeah,
I was on antibiotics for literally five months, almost from Jersey.
I was on five different antibiotics from the hospital. So.
From the sunset fight,
how many days did you have where you weren't on antibiotics before the fight?
I mean, I declared that I had,
and I was on antibiotics all the way up to the fight, you know, antibiotics.
I was.
So you were taking probiotics to counteract the effects.
A lot of probiotics, Frankie, Edgar, his wife sent me, uh, she did, they were,
they took care of me when I was in Jersey. Like hooked it up.
Like coach brought me pizza in the hospital. He was like,
it was during COVID when it.
Happened, but don't, you have to cut weight. I don't.
Cut weight to 35. Really. I'm like right now, probably 1 44.
I don't, I stay, you know, strong and fast.
And this is why I feel good at the 5 35.
I'd have to just diet a little bit like everyone else does for 25.
That's what everyone's making is a big deal going at 25. It's not.
You basically beat your immune system up while you had COVID and
then because of that, you got COVID really bad. Yes. Yeah. So tell me what.
I was horrible. I mean, I had the vertigo was the first symptom. And.
Then when did they test you for COVID?
I didn't get tested. Ty went down to Mike Tyson's ranch.
We were working with the smart cups company, Ross,
all sponsored by I'm doing digital videos.
And it was our first kind of getting the athletes together.
Cause they started doing fighters boxers and some rest WWE Kurt angle was there.
So I had to do like rabbit Tesla. We just did here and, um, uh,
waited, waited a while and they're like, Hey, we want you to do another one.
I'm like, all right, cool. Like we just didn't see some things we liked.
And I was like, all right. I'm like waiting for an hour, do another one.
I'm like, well, what did you guys see another test? Which I see, I'm like, oh,
you failed the first one. I'm like, well, that's a subtle way you telling it.
Like, I want to stay away from everybody. And like, you know,
everyone's coming up to me. And so I tested there in August. Um,
and then I went, you know, quarantine went home. Did the, did you.
Do any medication? What.
Did you do? I did a Z-Pak um, I got on an inhaler because I had pneumonia.
I got pneumonia, um, vertigo.
And then I did like a 21 day cause I had it so bad.
I kept getting tested like every three weeks.
And he kept having kept having I didn't molecular test, which was like nine,
you know, some of the best ones to do is.
That the PCR tests.
And just kept negative negative. My doctor's like, Hey,
we're going to quit testing you, you know? Like you being positive.
You kept testing.
Positive, positive for it. And I'm like, dang, this is crazy. I mean,
and I had started to have the symptoms going away. Like pneumonia was fine.
My lungs were good.
Like I felt it like I was that's when I started cycling a lot. Um,
so I was out there just pushing the lungs.
That's when my doctor said it was the best thing to do is riding that bike.
That much is getting those lungs keep working.
Cause you have pneumonia really bad. Jesus Christ. Wow. I felt horrible.
I thought it was cycling was one of the hardest things to do.
Yeah. Isn't it funny?
Because you would think like most people would think that a guy who's a world
championship caliber fighter is the type of guy who would get COVID and it would
just burn right through his system.
But because you were training while you had it and beating yourself up,
it just got deep into it.
The, I mean, it, it, it took over my body,
but I think honestly from the kidney infection beyond an antibiotic,
my immune system was.
How much time was there between the kidney infection, the antibiotics,
and then getting COVID.
I literally got out of the hospital and I texted Dana like, Hey,
I heard your did a press conference about having a fight. Um,
my kidney levels are good. I'm waiting for, maybe you have to do a biopsy. Um,
but I want to fight. And he's like, all right, work on it. And I was like,
begging Sean, you got COVID right away. Um, so I, then I, uh,
after the fight I had a, so June to August, but, uh,
so it was from the kidney infection, the fight to fight camps, you know,
basically one didn't happen, uh,
recovery building myself back up from where I was at getting ready to fight a
sun's out. The first time in March,
I literally had to start walking on a treadmill for a couple of weeks to get my,
I was in rough shape, rough, rough shape, and uh,
started training at my business partner's house. He had a home gym,
cause everything was closed, already rise, gym, wasn't open. He said, dude,
I got a treadmill. I got weights, kettlebells, you know, kettlebells. And uh,
so I went over there and just started to train and I'm like,
I'm getting myself ready. And it was brutal, brutal,
brutal training getting back in there. So this is pre.
COVID. This.
Is pre COVID. This, this kidney cancer.
Infection. Jesus Christ. So your body was obviously already compromised.
Yeah. Very caught my still antibiotics. They still had me on antibiotics. Uh,
the clean out the infection. I was on it for.
I got 30 day antibiotic from the hospital. So.
August you get COVID. How long before it clears your system,
how long before you start feeling good.
Months. Like I literally,
I went to Miami and worked with this company called amino Wells and they did
like kind of injections where we talked about like kind of stem cell injections
throughout my body arms. Um,
and I kinda started feeling a lot better at like the week after then I did a
month on the injections with a three milliliters, uh,
a week and I felt really good body felt good. Um, clarity went away.
I actually had to go to Arizona, the Mayo clinic, uh,
Dana thought I had many years disease.
So I went and saw his doctor that did his surgery. Um,
they gave him a shot in his ears. Did all these testings hearing test, um,
where they did you have ringing in your ears?
I had ringing bad in my left ear and there's, um,
I have a loss of a hearing in this year and they don't know why,
I think maybe because, um, this is my lead lead and.
You get hit in the left.
Ear. That's all I can say. I'm like, I don't know. I haven't shot a gun without,
you know, anything like that. You know, trying to just figure out what,
why is ringing? It makes like this popping noise. Oh. Um,
and I was just getting so like dizzy. I couldn't even do anything. Um, so,
so that's probably 10.
Attributed to the vertigo for sure. Right.
Um, they said it.
Wasn't the visually it's.
Ear things. Yeah. They said like crystal was,
I had vertigo before I worked with UPMC.
I was out for a whole year at my pro debut,
broke my hand and it had a vertigo from crystals being out of the air,
went through the UPMT crystals, crystals. You,
I was on a irregular tube that was throwing my equilibrium off,
which basically is positional vertigo. A lot of it's that's the most common one,
you know, a lot of people just, you know,
they can Steve's wrong or do something sleep wrong,
their neck and they have vertigo and there's a maneuver. You do to put it back,
but it wasn't positional vertigo. It was just literally COVID had,
had me so messed up.
So your body was so compromised from the antibiotics, the kidney infection,
second kidney infection. So you were just basically getting your health,
your health back, which is crazy that you beat a sunset in that state.
You had to be clearly compromised.
There's no way you could have been a hundred percent if you were gone,
if you went through that much antibiotics before that.
But I think that goes back to the, my middle state where I was at.
I knew that I needed to get in that Octa and the changes around,
I was not living life like this. I was tired of living on a three fight skid.
I was ready to just get back in there. And when, you know, like for me, like I,
like we talked about earlier with the TJ fights.
I don't have to go in there and be angry and upset and want to rip his head.
I got there. I hate this guy. I've hatred for this guy. It's a flip the switch.
Like when, you know, you have it in you, you don't, you know,
that that's been bred in me. I've had it. Um, so I just needed to get in there.
I was like, not taking no for an answer. I mean my coaches and stuff like, oh,
I don't know if you're going to make it, you know,
and coach mark had called him cause we basically did.
I would fill my pad work and my sparring rounds and send it to coach on
WhatsApp. And then he would break everything down, do more of this,
do less of that. Look at good, looking fast on the, you know, your left hook,
counter off or things like that. So we did virtually, you know,
camp through there. So then when he came out to,
I just kept working the codes to, you know, keep working your codes,
keep working, you know, make sure you're doing under nine and things like that.
Um, then when we came to fight week, it was just.
So talk me through you getting, you got COVID tested in August at the Tyson,
Joe, you knew that you had it. When, when are you free of it?
Like.
This is the first that I had passed since tests that my doctor would test in
February, February. She's so excited. I was like, dude,
I'm free.
I'm free of it. It was literally, you know, a couple months of having it,
testing it to where my doctor's like,
I'm not going to send out any more tests because they were 72 hour return ones.
And every time you did it, you had it. Every time I did.
This for months, um, tested my son. He didn't have it with me. We were, I was,
if I didn't get it, um, she ended up getting it. Um,
but it wasn't as severe. It was, it was a couple months ago that she got it. Um,
two months ago her and her twin got it. And it was kind of, you know,
they were sick, but not like mood I had, like, I was just.
Yeah, well, you're a perfect example of, you know,
obviously you're a super healthy guy and an elite athlete,
but when you put yourself through training camp,
there's only one way to get in shape. You got to beat yourself up. There's no,
there's no other way around. That's true.
And when you are so tough that you push through,
even though you had COVID and you let that get deep into your system,
there's a lesson in there for people, you know, because there's tough.
Tufts important. Yeah. You don't get where you get without being tough,
but there's, there's also, you gotta be,
you gotta be able to take a step back and go.
It's not wise to push sometimes.
And I think honestly, if I got tested before having COVID then I mean,
before I first had the first, like I've had this.
I probably would have had it for a couple of weeks or whatever.
Exactly it wouldn't be. As it took over my body, then I came back.
I hit pads the first time, like, dude, I'm an I'm in great shape.
Cause I was cycling a hundred miles. You know, I had to hard pace.
We were riding four or five times a week, you know, building the legs up.
And um, so I started hitting pads again and was excited.
Like I'm back in the gym. I can be around people because on the bike,
I was just on the bike show on the road, just, you know, suffer on the bike,
came back at pads the first time. And man, I, my bicep was so sore,
uh,
that I remember going to sleep that night and waking up and excruciating pain.
And my bicep was just filled up with blood like this. I thought I tore my bicep.
So I went to my doctor and he ultrasounded it.
And he thought it was a distal bicep, Terri, you know, deemed a doubt.
My father had to call Dana and tell them like, Hey,
I'm just talking about bicep and then get the MRI,
get the MRI nothing's torn. It was a, a guy.
And then I had to go get an urgent ultrasound.
I tore my vein in half and it ripped in half from then I had
three blood clots. So I was immediately,
they started injecting me with blood thinners. I was on,
I've been on blood thinners for, you know, since.
Yeah, this is because of COVID as well.
That's another thing that happens with people that severe cases of COVID they
get blood clots.
I didn't know. And my business partner, Jeremy Perkins,
he owns a PMP medical, which they work with COVID or they work with blood clots.
They have, you know, some,
the device that they sell to doctors and hospitals and the whole time he's like,
dude, I think you have a blood clot. I'm like,
there's no way I have a blood clot. Well,
that's a number one silent killer in the nation is his blood clots because
people don't know they have it. I had three of them in my arm.
Didn't even know that's crazy. I just had like, my arm was sore for a while.
So you were on blood thinners now I.
Just finished up my last, I was on blood thinners for.
A month.
Catch new episodes of the Joe Rogan experience for free only on Spotify.
Watch back catalog J R E videos on Spotify,
including clips easily seamlessly switch between video
and audio experience on Spotify.
You can listen to the JRE in the background while using other apps and can
download episodes to save on data costs. All for free.
Spotify is absolutely free.
You don't have to have a premium account to watch new JRE episodes.
You just need to search for the JRE on your Spotify app.
Go to Spotify now to get this full episode of the Joe Rogan.